README.md, before:

# School and Student Performance Metrics and Insights
# Description
This UT Module 4 pandas-challenge is an analysis using data about schools in certain districts and the impacts of resources, size and type to better understand how students might perform based on that information.

# Analysis

The first part of the analysis is understanding of the district in review. 
Below is a screenshot of the Districit Summary
![District_Summary](district_summary.png)

The second part is a deeper looker at each school within the district. Below is a screenshot of the School Summary.
![per_school_summary](image.png)

Next, we wanted to understand what schools were the highest performing and lowest performing, and what were the characteristics of those schools. Below is an image of top 5 highest performing schools and the bottom 5 lowest performing schools. The key characteristic that stands out is type.
![top_schools](top_schools.png)
![bottom_schools](bottom_schools.png)

Math and Reading are the primary subjects evaluated in this analysis. Below is a breakdown of the two subjects by grade. 
math_scores_by_grade
![math_scores_by_grade](math_scores_by_grade.png)

reading_scores_by_grade
![reading_scores_by_grade](reading_scores_by_grade.png)

We broke down each school by spending in different ranges per student.
![school_spending](school_spending.png)



# Installation
Must have following installed:
    pandas 
    pathlib

# Authors and acknowledgment
Show your appreciation to those who have contributed to the project.
UT Xpert Learning Assistant, ChatGPT, UT Data Analytics Class Material, and reference to girHub user meltonme/pandas-challenge

# Project status
Complete. Options for improvement could improve quality with some better formatting features if time allows in future or it seems necessary.

Commit message:

Code Complete, ReadMe updated with images and analysis.

README.md, after:

# School and Student Performance Metrics and Insights

# Description
This UT Module 4 pandas-challenge is an analysis using data about schools in certain districts and the impacts of resources, size and type to better understand how students might perform based on that information.

# Analysis
Below is a breakdown of analysis all image are in the images folder and refernced here.

The first part of the analysis is understanding of the district in review. 
Below is a screenshot of the Districit Summary
![District_Summary](district_summary.png)

The second part is a deeper looker at each school within the district. Below is a screenshot of the School Summary.
![per_school_summary](image.png)

Next, we wanted to understand what schools were the highest performing and lowest performing, and what were the characteristics of those schools. Below is an image of top 5 highest performing schools and the bottom 5 lowest performing schools. The key characteristic that stands out is type.
![top_schools](top_schools.png)
![bottom_schools](bottom_schools.png)

Math and Reading are the primary subjects evaluated in this analysis. Below is a breakdown of the two subjects by grade. 
math_scores_by_grade
![math_scores_by_grade](math_scores_by_grade.png)

reading_scores_by_grade
![reading_scores_by_grade](reading_scores_by_grade.png)

We broke down each school by spending in different ranges per student and then by size, making categorical ranges based on the distribution of data and comparing the result of scores in each group. Finally we broke down scores by type and compared scores there as well. 
scores by school spending per student:
![school_spending](school_spending.png)

scores by school size
![school_size](school_size.png)
size_summary
![size_summary](size_summary.png)

scores by school type:
![scores_by_school_type](scores_by_school_typeimage.png)

# Installation
Must have following installed:
    pandas 
    pathlib

# Authors and acknowledgment
Show your appreciation to those who have contributed to the project.
UT Xpert Learning Assistant, ChatGPT, UT Data Analytics Class Material, and reference to girHub user meltonme/pandas-challenge

# Project status
Complete. Options for improvement could improve quality with some better formatting features if time allows in future or it seems necessary. Commented out some for now because it was making numeric data string and unusable later on in code.
